# x509

## keys

laprassl supports rsa and ec (secp384r1) keytypes.

## certificates

certificates with a basicConstraint `cA` set to true has to be generated with the admin token.

## basicConstraints

### cA

the `cA` boolean indicates whether the certified public key may be used to verify certificate signatures.
If set to false or is not asserted, then the `keyCertSign` bit in `keyUsage` must not be asserted.

### pathLenConstraint

Only meaningful if `cA` boolean is asserted and the keyUsage extension asserts the `keyCertSign` bit.
It defines the maximum number of non-self-issued intermediate certificates that may follow this certificate.

> pathlen of 0

    root - end entity

> pathlen of 1

    root - intermediate - end entity

> pathlen missing

    root - intermediate - intermediate - [...] - end entity

## key usage

### digitalSignature

this bit is asserted when the subject public key is used for verifying digital signatures
e.g. entity authentication service, data origin authentication service and/or
integrity service.

### nonRepudiation

this bit is asserted when the subject public key is used for verifying digital signatures
e.g. provide a non-repudiation service that protects against the signing entity.

### keyEncipherment

this bit is asserted when the subject public key is used for enciphering private or secret keys
i.e, for key transport.

### dataEncipherment

this bit is asserted when the subject public key is used for directly enciphering raw user data
without the use of an intermediate symmetric cipher.

### keyAgreement

this bit is asserted when the subject public key is used for key agreement.
e.g. when a DH key is to be used for key management.

### keyCertSign

this bit is asserted when the subject public key is used for verifying signatures on public key certificates.
If this bit is asserted, then the `cA` bit in the basic constraints extension must also be asserted.

### cRLSign

this bit is asserted when the subject public key is used for verifying signatures on certificate revocation lists.

### encipherOnly

the usage of this bit is undefined in the absence of the `keyAgreement` bit otherwise the subject public key
may be used only for enciphering data while performing key agreement.

### decipherOnly

the usage of this bit is undefined in the absence of the `keyAgreement` bit otherwise the subject public key
may be used only for deciphering data while performing key agreement.

## extended key usage

### serverAuth

used for ssl/tls web server authentication.

### clientAuth

used for ssl/tls web client authentication.

### codeSigning

used for signing code

### emailProtection

used for protecting emails (S/MIME)

### timeStamping

used for trusted timestamping

### OCSPSigning

used for OCSP signing

### ipsecIKE

used for ipsec internet key exchange

### msCodeInd

used for microsoft individual code signing (authenticode)

### msCodeCom

used for microsoft commercial code signing (authenticode)

### msCTLSign

used for microsoft trust list signing

### msEFS

used for microsoft encrypted file system
